# Battleship_Project

I have created a text based version of the board game battleship. I utilized classes, objects, and functions to develop the components of this game. To start playing, run the program battleship.py and then type in hostGame() into the terminal. You will get a small introduction to the game along with a board of three ships, one of length two denoted as two '2's, one of length three denoted as three '3's, and one of length four denoted as four '4's. These three ships are randomly placed on a board that is labeled 1 to 10 going down and a to j going left to right. You will then be prompted with the choice to change your board to randomize your three ships. Next you can pick what level AI you want to play against. The level 1 AI will play random moves, the level 2 AI adopts a strategy where it will shoot in order vertically from the top left corner all the way to the bottom right corner. Finally, the level 3 AI is created to play in a way that it will always win between 15 to 18 moves. Essentially AI level three has developer level cheats and it knows your board but chooses to throw in random moves to give you a chance. 

When you start the game, you will be prompted with the task to pick a letter between a to j, followed by a number between 1 to 10, which indicates where you want to shoot. If you hit or miss an opponent's ship, a message will be printed saying 'hit!' or 'miss!' respectively. After every shot you make, the AI will also shoot, and you will be able to see your board updated every turn. You will win once you have sunk all three ships of your opponent and you will lose if your ships are sunk. Upon completion of the game, you will be prompted with the choice of playing again, along with a message indicating how many games you have played, won, and lost. 

Enjoy playing!
